# Bohrradius
Introduction:	
The problem I chose was one that had been solved in many ways. The problem I wanted to consider was the size of a hydrogen atom, and more precisely that it is said that the size of 1 hydrogen atom is 1 angstrom (Å, 10 ^ (-10) m) or 2 Bohr radii. The electron however is not in one place the entire time. It can be solved through the Schrödinger equation and is roughly found by considering the Bohr radius r, and the interval r + dr for the distance from the nucleus, and integrating from 0 to r. This has been utilized across the board in trying to enlighten physics students and I personally have seen this statement in a few classrooms. 
Methods:
	For this problem I chose to use Monte Carlo integration as the method in which I would accomplish this modeling. First, I would need to make sure my method works so I set up a test with a circle. This should translate to the problem chosen as we will be taking the integral over a sphere with the Bohr radii, r1 = ϵ0*h ^(2)/π*me ^(2) = 0.529×10−10m by the end of this project.
 	To test this methods accuracy, I have set up a box with length 2 a circle inside of it with r set to 1 and generate a random coordinate for points on the grid and determine if the points are inside the circle by checking the average of the x and y coordinates to see if it is equal to or less the value of r. After that, I would have the volume of the square (2r) ^2 over a large number N and multiply that by the summation of my function f (x, y) = f (r). Then I will compare this method with a known analytical solution to test if it holds. With the Monte Carlo method I found a very reasonable answer as compared to the analytical (see output) with a difference of approximately 0.001 this is good enough to proceed. 
The hydrogen atom has the wave function: ψ100(r) = 1/√ (π*a ^ (3)) * exp(−r/a) where     a = 0.529 Å (Bohr radius). Once this wave function has its absolute value squared, we are ready to get the probability density |ψ100(r)| ^ (2) = 1/ (π*a ^ (3)) *exp(-2r/a). Using this I integrated the function and calculated the analytical solution. We find the difference between the analytical solution and the Monte Carlo method is even smaller at approximately 0.00007, however the probability is only 0.32 to find the atom inside the Bohr radii. This shows the accuracy of the methods used however there is still something not adding up as it is said that the hydrogen atom would surely fit in this radius. This leads to the final portion of this project which is the contour plot below. 
	To see exactly the results expected, I took a cross section in the x-y plane of the probability distribution to find a peak at the center of the grid and extremely improbable odds shown being at the outermost portions of the graph. 
Discussion:
	There are many methods that can out preform the Monte Carlo integration methods used here today. One could use the quadrature method which is easily usable on python to get a good approximation for this answer. The benefits to the Monte Carlo method start because scale used in this problem is measured in angstrom. In this confined space we can find the convergence of the quadrature method to be o(n ^ (d)) where the method I have used only should have a convergence of roughly o(n ^ (1/2))  and be dimensionally independent  considering central limit theory. Using a callable built-in function like quadrature to give you an answer is one way to approach this but if the answer is wrong it will be harder to catch. Going through the numerical steps to get your solution grants many insights to the problem itself and it may open the door to more problems along the way, however, it also allows you to change it as you go and see how changing each detail will affect your outputs. Through this process you get to understand the problem better and can account for the errors to come. 
	 
References
Loudon, Rodney. "One-Dimensional Hydrogen Atom | Proceedings Of The Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical And Engineering Sciences". Royalsocietypublishing.Org, 2016, https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rspa.2015.0534. Accessed 16 Apr 2021.
